in the last hour the United Kingdom has
said it will provide an additional $24.5
million in Aid to Gaza the United
Kingdom's foreign secretary James
cleverly joins us now live from
Westminster Mr cleverly thank you so
much for your time with us here on Al
jazer your government is offering a
substantial Aid package for Gaza some 20
million pound but the people of Gaza
would need much less Aid trucked across
the border if Israel simply turned on
the water and electricity they have the
power to do that on a grid that they
designed is prime minister Rishi sunak
asking Netanyahu to do
that well uh thank you and as you say
the Prime Minister just a few minutes
ago announced an additional 20 million
pound in humanitarian support for the
people of Gaza that is on top of the 10
million uh that we announced uh uh last
week and on top of the 27 million which
was our pre-existing commitment to
humanitarian support in Gaza we are
trying to alleviate the plight of the
Palestinian people uh in Gaza and I
recognize the uh the uh the situation
for them is is difficult and of course
sadly we have seen uh the water pipes
that uh have been previously funded by
the EU videos of those water pipes being
torn up by Hamas and turned into Rockets
to fire into Israel we have seen fuel
that could go to uh electricity de
generators and the desalination pants
being used to facilitate the attacks
going into Israel of course of course we
want the suffering of the Palestinian
people in Gaza to stop as quickly as
possible and the quicker that Israel can
be reassured of its self uh uh defense
and its security the quicker the
suffering of the people of Gaza can be
brought to a Hal so foreign secretary
just for clarity there the British
government is not asking Israel to turn
the water or the electricity back
on what we have said is that in all the
actions that Israel takes they should be
conscious of the plight of civilians
they should do everything they can to
pre to preserve a civilian life we are
of course seeking to uh ensure that that
is the case we've had those
conversations uh with Israel uh Israel
have uh made the decisions about how
that they how they will conduct the
military operations uh in Gaza that's a
decision for them to make but in all our
interactions with Israel we reinforce
the importance of international law and
the preservation of civilian life uh
foreign secretary you mentioned fuel
there some very limited Aid we know has
been allowed in but not fuel the United
Nations has put out a call Martin
Griffith himself the un's aid Chief has
asked for fuel to be included in the
these Aid deliveries UNICEF for instance
is warning that over
100 newborn babies and incubators will
die if they can't be powered are you
urging Israel to consider letting fuel
in on some of these a
trucks well of course Israel is not the
only decision maker with regards to the
facilitation of humanitarian Aid uh as
you uh as you alluded to into your uh
introduction the United Kingdom has been
very very significant in its Aid
donations to support the Palestinian
people in Gaza we want to see that Aid
and all the aid that's needed all the
types of Aid that is needed getting to
the people uh in Gaza that's not just a
decision for the Israelis it is of
course a decision also uh for Hamas and
the other people who are the de de facto
controllers of Gaza and we liay very
very closely with Egypt who manage the
Rafa Crossing and the international uh
Community to try and make make sure that
Aid in significant numbers get to the
people that need it so sorry foreign
secret just to clarify your last
statement there the UN is calling for
fuel to be included in those Aid
deliveries which are being also
facilitated by the international
Committee of the Red Cross and the
United Nations is the UK asking in your
diplomatic Channels with Israel for fuel
to be
included well what we have what we are
doing is we are leing very very closely
with the United Nations uh my colleague
and friend Andrew Mitchell who is the
development Minister uh on behalf of the
British government is leasing with uh
Martin Griffiths of of the uh un
humanitarian organization on what is
needed by the Palestinian people in Gaza
we're looking to support that but also
as I say the decisions about what Aid in
what volumes is a decision that the UK
is not uh directly able to make but we
do uh we do speak with uh the decision
makers in the region to try and make
sure that the Palestine people in Gaza
get the aid that they need sure um
foreign secretary let me ask you about
something that prime minister sunak has
said in the last hour he stated that
your government has Intelligence that
the devastating blast at the alaki
hospital was caused by a rocket from the
Gaza Strip can you elaborate on what
evidence you have and if you'll be
sharing it with the International
Community
well we have used uh the uh the evidence
that is already in the public domain
allied with the intelligence analysts
that we have here in the United Kingdom
and of course uh uh British weapons
experts our assessment our thoughtful
balanced assessment is that the
likelihood is that this was done by a
rocket or part of a rocket emanating
from Gaza directed at Israel and is
unlik likely to have been caused by
Israeli military action that is the
information that the uh prime minister
gave to the house and that is based on
our assessment of the information which
is already in the public domain okay
foreign secretary let me ask you a
little bit about diplomacy we were
talking a little bit about it there in
terms of aid but when it comes to the
security Council for instance I believe
the United States has come up with a a
new draft resolution suggesting the
possibility of humanitarian pauses
humanitarian corridors will the UK vote
in favor of such a
resolution well we we always look at the
specific details of a resolution before
we make the final decision about voting
we worked extensively with the
Brazilians uh on their wording in the
end the UK's assessment was the wording
did not quite go far enough of course we
will work with the United States of
America on the wording of their
resolution to try and find something
which is is able to reflect the uh
Collective opinion of the International
Community but any voting decision will
be based on the specific content of the
text of the Revolution resolution rather
and that is always the uh uh yard stick
that the UK uses for deciding our votes
at the United Nations of course foreign
secretary then let me ask you a specific
question about humanitarian pauses does
the United Kingdom currently believe
that humanitarian pauses and
humanitarian corridors are currently
needed
well of course in order to facilitate
humanitarian uh support in order for uh
people to get hold of what they need
they need to feel safe and they need to
feel safe uh for a realistic amount of
time but their safety is not in any one
organization's hands uh there have been
extensive rocket fires from Gaza
initiated by Hamas and others into
Israel of course in Israel are
responding to those attacks and the
terrorist attacks on the 7th of
October if we can create a situation
where there is a pause a genuine pause
to facilitate humanitarian access of
course we will be supporting of that but
of course that does need to be in both
directions and there needs to be a
credible belief that not only will uh uh
Israel not be uh conducting military
operations in Gaza but no operations
will be conducted from Gaza that is the
challenge that we have here at creating
these humanitarian pauses so FR
secretary if I heard you correctly there
you're saying that the United Kingdom
would be in favor of a humanitarian
pause if both Israel and Hamas agree not
to launch things at each other so if
there is a resolution calling for a
humanitarian pause from both sides
that's something the UK would be in
support
of well as I say I'm not going to commit
to our voting pattern without seeing the
specific wording of a resolution and
calling for something and achieving it
are very different things and that's uh
the work of the United Nations of course
is important but that is also why we fly
to the region the Prime Minister was
there I was there that is why we speak
uh directly where we can to decision
makers because the the the reality on
the ground has to facilitate that
humanitarian access and calling for
things uh at the United Nations without
the accompanying direct diplomacy in the
region will not get us what we want and
what we want is for the people of uh
Gaza the Palestinians of Gaza to receive
that humanitarian Aid one of the issues
that was raised around the Brazilian
resolution in the security Council was
the lack of language around Israel's
right to defend itself the UK has always
said that Israel has the right to defend
itself we now know there are 5,000
people dead in Gaza more than half of
them women and children do you regard
that as legitimate
defense well firstly I would I would say
that we have to remember that Israel is
responding to the largest terrorist
attack in their history the largest loss
of life at a single event since the end
of the Holocaust and continued attacks
from Gaza into Israel so uh we must
never lose sight of what uh initiated
this uh latest military operation we
have always said we respect and support
Israel's right to self-defense and we
have always said that they should do so
in strict accordance to uh international
law we also recognize we've seen uh
evidence of this on multiple occasions
that where Israel has sought to warn
civilian populations about where
military action is about to take place
Hamas have actively prevented
Palestinians from leaving those areas of
danger uh now clearly the loss of life
the the the loss of Palestinian civilian
life is heartbreaking just as
heartbreaking as a loss of Israeli lives
in October the 7th and since we want to
bring this to a conclusion of course we
do we want to prevent further escalation
of course we do but we also need to
respect Israel's right to defend itself
against the brutality that we saw two
weeks ago the British foreign secretary
there James cleverly joining us from
Westminster and London thank you so much
sir for spending this time with us on Al
jazer well let's now bring in Sultan
Barakat he's a professor of public
policy at hammad bin Khalifa University
he joins us now in our studio in Doha
Sultan last hour we were talking about
Western countries Western backers of
Israel and whether or not their their
tone on this has shifted what did you
make of what Mr clevy had to
say uh it was very disappointing to be
honest and it I'm not sure who's
briefing him but he he got a lot of
things wrong uh the reference to the
diversion of fuel has not been verified
by any other organization the business
about the desination uh plant is been
dismantled and used for missiles Israel
for 14 years has had a very very strict
regime on anything that comes into the
Gaza Strip no pipe has been allowed in
that can be used dual Ed with the same
you know the quality of the casting and
so on so whatever this story I don't
know where it came from it's not true
that plan took years to build and it was
paid for by the European Union and some
Scandinavian countries so uh that is not
not the case also the uh the uh
reference to uh Hamas preventing
Palestinians from moving from North to
the South I don't know where he's been I
mean I has he not watched the news to
they not give him accurate briefing how
can Hamas come on the streets to prevent
the Palestinians from moving we all saw
the Palestinians making the move they
couldn't go anywhere they were bombed we
all uh followed the stories about the
hospitals how can you evacuate hospitals
has Britain done anything to EV evacuate
those hospitals nothing and finally I
think this idea that it is sufficient
for a superpower United Kingdom one of
the five permanent members to only call
on Israel to have a conscious
uh uh awareness of the blight of the
Palestinians I think it's ridiculous to
be honest and I'm very very disappointed
and when you contrast the same statement
the same uh State people uh two years
ago when they were talking about uh
Ukraine it's in it's two different
worlds and this is why uh I find it very
worrying not because of what's going on
in Gaza it's because of the hatred that
is now Brewing all over the world uh
towards the west and in particular has
right to protect itself we know that it
says that in the law but also the law
says Israel cannot and should not Target
civilians to Simply ask them to avoid
civilians to moderate their attacks is
not good enough Security Council they
don't need to argue over the the
definitions the only thing they need to
say Israel has got to respect
international law full stop Sultan Barak
there professor of public policy at
hammad bin Khalifa University always
great to get your thoughts here and
studio in Doha thank you sultan